Git if you work alone:
Files that start with period are generally hidden from the user

Initializing a repository: git init

What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
A new repository gets created that creates a hidden folder in which previous commits
are stored without the user being able to see them. You need to do it in order
to be able to use Git properly

Files are in the working directory at first, not in git repository.

Working directory -> staging area -> Git repository
git status shows us what is in the staging area, working directory and git repository

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?
It is only a storage opportunity. It allows logical changes of the overall programm to be made.
If every file that is added would lead to a commit immediately it would not be possible to do this

git diff with no arguments shows changes I made that have not been added to the
staging area
git diff --staged compares staging area with most recent commit
git reset --hard: removes all changes from working directory and staging area


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
I can change code in different files and add them to the staging area
so that I can commit them when I have made a logical change

Branches: You can checkout branches. Combine two commits: Merging

Creating, checking out and committing to branches:
git branch -> Shows you the existing branches
git branch newbranchname -> creates a new branch with the given name
git checkout branchname -> switches to given branch

What are some situations when branches would be helpful
in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
They could store different versions of my program or different experiments

Master branch -> Production branch that should always work
Rest branch -> Other developments

Git log --graph --oneline
git checkout -b newbranchname (creates new branch for changes in commits that
are not the most recent)

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
They help me to separate different branches and also give me an understanding
of the parent-child relationship between different commits

git show -> shows only changes that were made by a commit and its parent

What is the result of merging two branches together?
Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
The result is that all the changes of the commits of both branches are merged
together in one branch and commit. The diagram is important, since it shows that
all the commits are still reachable and there is still only one branch name

Merge conflict:
If changes were made to the same area of a file, you need to resolve the conflict
first

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
Automatic mergin saves a lot of time, manual merging leaves the code there that
is really needed for the project to work properly
